---
published: true
layout: post
title: "2015 wk.12: aws playground"
lang: en
---

Fastmail is quite nice and more than enough for my minimum needs concerning website hosting. But the lack of https support on custom domains bugs me since I embraced ["private by default"][].

["private by default"]: https://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/201x/2012/12/02/HTTPS

Hence, as my personal domains are my means of testing new stuff, I decided this was a good moment to test out how AWS could cater this basic need. Free tier, here I come.

## Scenario

As this is a Jekyll static site syncing the `_site` directory to an S3 bucket seems a great option. And as I want to serve it through HTTPS I need to use Cloudfront.

## Cloudfront

[Some guy on the Internet][] had a very good guide to setup cloudfront and S3 to serve static sites *with subdirectories*. There's this gotcha that you can setup a default file (index.html) in Cloudfront **but only at the root level**. In S3 you can setup your bucket as a website to achieve index files in all the subdirectories, but then you need to create the connection between Cloudfront and S3 as a plain website, not as an S3 bucket.

[some guy on the internet]: http://someguyontheinter.net/blog/serving-index-pages-from-a-non-root-location-via-cloudfront/

## DNS for Fastmail services
It turns out that [you cannot serve a naked/apex domain]["domain-restrictions"] with Amazon Cloudfront without using Route 53 so I was forced to leave Fastmail's standard configuration and wade into its documentation to discover the utter inexistence of a list of DNS records. In [Gandi][] you can copy and paste your zone info with BIND syntax. Not in Fastmail.

All in all I found the lack of comprehensive DNS info disturbing so here are my notes.

[Gandi]: https://gandi.net/

["domain-restrictions"]: http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/CNAMEs.html#alternate-domain-names-restrictions

### Fastmail standard DNS records

    ; STANDARD_MX
    @                  IN MX 10 in1-smtp.messagingengine.com.
    @                  IN MX 20 in2-smtp.messagingengine.com.
    
    ; STANDARD_CALDAV
    _caldavs._tcp      IN SRV 0 1 443 caldav-d333277.messagingengine.com.
    
    ; STANDARD_CARDDAV
    _carddavs._tcp     IN SRV 0 1 443 carddav-d333277.messagingengine.com.

    ; STANDARD_DKIM
    mesmtp._domainkey  IN TXT "v=DKIM1\; k=rsa\; p=MIGfMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBAQUAA4GNADCBiQKBgQCvkC1+mEWX9IRlId82Z5bo10Xtbguz+/Qb4hOYE9n8HgFvW8b3krieeg+xbEdMyc9Gwob3YC8odpZIk1AYuB7/MqUeR4KouZjBC5cVdhSZjXNokei6fwcxgWQyVMDlfoAANzo1gCK6KIc6UWbw8kREdAcYFFMDBHVDFu7ufXBqWwIDAQAB"
    
    ; STANDARD_JABBER
    _xmpp-client._tcp  IN SRV 5 0 5222 chat.messagingengine.com.
    _xmpp-server._tcp  IN SRV 5 0 5269 chat.messagingengine.com.
	
    ; STANDARD_AUTOCONFIG
    ; https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6186
    _submission._tcp   IN SRV 0 1 587 mail.messagingengine.com.
    _imaps._tcp        IN SRV 0 1 993 mail.messagingengine.com.

    ; webmail
    mail               IN A   66.111.4.55
    mail               IN A   66.111.4.56

